# Problem Set 8
Install packages ggplot2, phyloseq, randomForest, knitr and dplyr. Complete the following problem set. Once completed, use File > Compile Report in R Studio to create HTML document of the problem set. Before you create the Report comment the install.package function. 

#### 1: load all the needed files to create a phyloseq object and do the following:
```
a. subset samples of male gender
b. remove samples with less than 30000 reads
c. remove singletons
d. remove ASVs whose mean value per sample is less than 1
```
#### 2: make a dataframe of training data with ASVs as column and samples as rows, make one column for our outcome/response variable region_c (categorical) and combine them into 1 data frame

#### 3: use the randomForest package to train and test our random forest model and grow 10000 trees

#### 4: print and interpret your OOB estimate of error rate. Is that error reasonable?

#### 5: make a bar plot of the 10 most important variables in our model and oder them by importance

#### 6: what are the taxonomic ranks of those ASVs?

#### 7: make a dataframe of training data with ASVs as column and samples as rows, make one column for our outcome/response variable age (numerical) and combine them into 1 data frame

#### 8: use the randomForest package to train and test our random forest model and grow 10000 trees. Print the result

#### 9: make a bar plot of the 10 most important predictors in our model and order them by importance

#### 10: display the taxonomic ranks of the top 10 ASVs

