# Problem Set 6
Install packages ggplot2, phyloseq, cowplot, vegan, microbiome and knitr. Complete the following problem set. Once completed, use File > Compile Report in R Studio to create HTML document of the problem set. Before you create the Report comment the install.package function.

#### 1: create a phyloseq object with the attached RDS file. Then 
```
# filter singletons
# filter samples with <50000 reads
# filter taxa with <10000 reads
# show the phyloseq-class experiment-level object
# use this filtered ps object in all subsequent analyses
```

#### 2: create a barplot of familial relative proportions per sampleID 

#### 3: convert ASV read counts in filtered ps above to abundances and build a PCA. How much of the total variance is explained by PC1?

#### 4: estimate a	Ward's Minimum Variance dendrogram using the Bray-Curtis distance

#### 5: perform a Principal Coordinate Analysis (PCoA) of factor type using the Unifrac unweighted distance. Show plot

#### 6: perform a NMDS of factor type using the Unifrac unweighted distance. Show plot

#### 7: create a PCoA plot for 2 factors (type and wash) using list and the Unifrac unweighted distance. Show plot

#### 8: using the filtered ps object above create a network for type using the Bray-Curtis distance

#### 9: plot a phylogenetic Tree colored by type for the filtered ps object above. Eliminate node values, show size abundance and ladderize to the right

#### 10:identify core microbial species (ASVs) with a 90% prevalence in the filtered ps object above 
