# Problem Set 2
Complete the following problem set. Once completed, use File > Compile Report in R Studio to create HTML document of the problem set. Before you create the Report comment the install.package function.

#### 1: set up your working directory, import the dataset hsb2demo.csv and install dplyr
setwd("~/Library/CloudStorage/Box-Box/Dropbox/Academia/Teaching/Microbiome Data Analysis in R 2024/Sessions/Session2/PS2")
tab <- read.csv("hsb2demo.csv")
head(tab)

#install.packages("dplyr")
library(dplyr)

#2: using the pipe operator, %>% or |>, select columns: id, female, prog and socst. Show with head
head(dplyr::select(tab, id, female, prog, socst))

tab %>% 
  dplyr::select(id,female, prog, socst) %>% 
  head 

#3: now select all columns except those from prog to match (inclusive). Show with head
head(dplyr::select(tab, -(prog:math )))

#4: filter the rows for students with both reading and math scores greater than or equal 65
filter(tab, read >= 65, math >= 65)

#5a: reorder dataset by id. Show with head
head(arrange(tab, id))

#5b: reorder in descending order by read. Show with head
head(arrange(tab, desc(read)))

#6: using the pipe operator select three columns id, gender, read from tab, arrange the rows by the id and return the head of the final data frame
tab%>%dplyr::select(id, female, read) %>%
  arrange(id) %>% 
  head

#7: create new columns using mutate() and Calculate average math and write scores. Show with head
head(dplyr::mutate(tab, avg_read = sum(math)/n()))

#8: group by gender and create summary (mean, min and max) of math using pipe operator
tab %>% group_by(female) %>%
  dplyr::summarise(n = n(),
            avg_read  = mean(math), 
            min_read = min(math),
            max_read = max(math))

#9: install ggplot and upload the dataset iris with data(iris). Create a scatter plot for the three species of iris with the following aesthetics: variables: Petal.Width vs Petal.Length. Smoothing method: glm. Include a title and subtitle and axis names

data(iris)
#attach(iris)
head(iris)

#install.packages("ggplot")
library(ggplot2)
ggplot(iris, aes(Petal.Width, Petal.Length)) +
  geom_point(aes(col=Species), size=3) + 
  geom_smooth(method="glm",col="red",size=2) +
  labs(title="Petal width vs Petal length", subtitle="Using iris dataset", 
       y="Length of Sepal", x="Width of Sepal")

#10: use ggpubr to create a box plot of Petal.Width by Species and use different shapes for each species

#install.packages("ggpubr")
library(ggpubr)

data(iris)
head(iris, 3)

p <- ggboxplot(iris, x = "Species", y = "Petal.Width",
               color = "Species", palette =c("#00AFBB", "#E7B800", "#FC4E07"),
               add = "jitter", shape = "Species")
p

